docs(nx-plugin): add documentation for generators/schematics (#592)
analogjs/analog: apps/docs-app/docs/integrations/schematics/index.md

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Angular Schematics

## Overview

> Analogjs provides a series of schematics that help automate some of the frequent tasks inside an Analog workspace, like generating a **Page**, a starting point for a **Blog** (work in progress), or generating **Posts** (work in progress). To use these schematics we can use this command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Analog provides a series of schematics that help automate some of the frequent tasks inside an Analog workspace, like generating a **Page**. To use these schematics, use the generate command:
```

### Generate a Page

> This command will generate a page inside our `pages` folder with minimal configuration out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command generates a page inside our `pages` folder with minimal configuration out of the box.
```

```shell

> ng g @analogjs/platform:page --pathname=index --project=/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ng g @analogjs/platform:page --pathname=index
```

Author: i tried this without the project and it generates the file in the wrong place the '/'

Reviewer: Hmm, we should resolve that then, or have project default to `/`. In a single project workspace the default project should be used.

```

it also works with the Analog specific filenames, **Note: this names needs to be surrounded by single quotes** ex:

```shell

> ng g @analogjs/platform:page --pathname='(blog)' --project=/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ng g @analogjs/platform:page --pathname='(blog)'
```

Author: i tried this without the project and it generates the file in the wrong place the '/'

```

The schematic as well accepts subfolders to structure our project properly.

```shell

> ng g @analogjs/platform:page --pathname='products/[products]' --project=/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ng g @analogjs/platform:page --pathname='products/[products]'
```

Author: i tried this without the project and it generates the file in the wrong place the '/'
